
# Basic Blog Application

GitHub Repository: [https://github.com/aadhika8/mynewblog](https://github.com/aadhika8/mynewblog)

## Overview

This Basic Blog Application is built using Laravel 11. The application provides a simple interface to manage blog posts, including functionalities for creating, reading, updating, and deleting posts. The project aims to demonstrate basic CRUD operations and Laravel's capabilities for web application development.

## Features

- **Create**: Users can add new blog posts with titles and content.
- **Read**: Users can view a list of all blog posts and individual post details.
- **Update**: Users can edit existing blog posts.
- **Delete**: Users can remove blog posts from the application.

## Setup and Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/aadhika8/mynewblog.git
    ```

## Approach

Following approach was taken for the completion of assignment 2:

1. I created a new branch in th existing project which was implement for assignment 1 using the following command:
    ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/auth-admin-panel
    ```
2. As described in the lecture 4, I setup MongoDB. As I am running on a MacOs machine, I setup MongoDB using the following command:
    ```bash
   sudo pecl install mongodb
    ```
3. After that I installed th MongoDB package using the following command:
    ```bash
   composer require m/ongodb/laravel-mongodb
   ```
4. After that, new migrations were created to add additional columns to users and posts table and then the models and migrations were fixed in order to work with mongoDB database. In database seeder, 10 authors having 10 posts and one admin user was created having the following credentials:
    ```
    email: aadhika8@myune.edu.au
    password: password
   ```
5. laravel UI was then installed and the authentication scaffolding was generated by running the following commands:
    ```bash
    composer require laravel/ui
    php artisan ui bootstrap --auth
    npm install && npm run dev
    ```
6. Two different dashboards were setup for author and admin along with AdminMiddleware and AuthorMiddleware for access control as well as different controllers asn view residing in their respective folders.
7. CRUD Implementation was done in complete isolation with author user having it's own dedicated PostController as well as Admin user. the user's CRUD was only implemented in the admin panel only.
8. Finally the authentication system, access control and CRUD functionalities were tested in both the admin and author panel.

## Challenges faced:

During the completion of this assignment, I had a hard time setting up mongoDB in my machine. I was not able to set it up in the first try. I had to go through the lecture multiple time in order to get it working properly. 
Now, with tha out of the way, next issue I experienced was during edit from validation for unique fields. I was supposed to ignore the current user id and check for unique email only if the user is different. After looking through the internet multiple time I was able to get it working by using the validation rule as per my expectation
